For those of you who haven't used
context in other frameworks,
context APIs are essentially a mechanism
for components to talk to each other
without passing data and functions around
as props and without dispatching events.
It's not a feature that you will tend
to use a lot in your own apps, but
it is a useful one.
It's something that's more frequently used
in the context of a component library.
But it's worth understanding how it works.
So in this exercise, we've got
a blank Canvas here and our task is
to recreate this piece of artwork called
shutter by a chap named George Nees.
He was one of the pioneers
of computer driven artwork.
I'm gonna use that.
We're gonna use the Canvas API
to rebuild this.
So, App.svelte is instantiation
this Canvas element,
and it's putting an array of
squares inside the Canvas.
The Canvas is as we've seen
as this very imperative API,
it doesn't normally work with components.
The context API allows us to make
components that draw to a Canvas.
Inside the Canvas component,
we have this addItem function,
and what addItem does
is it calls onMount and
adds a function that is gonna
render something to a Canvas,
to a set that we have locally
to the Canvas element.
And then when the component is removed,
it'll take that out of the set.
Every time there's any
update to the state,
then it's gonna use that await tick,
to redraw the Canvas,
to reflect the new data.
So what we need to do,
our task is to make this addItem function
available to the square.svelte component,
and we can do that by first
importing set context from svelte.
And then calling it.
With a name for the context.
We're gonna use the word Canvas,
but it can be anything,
it doesn't even need to be a string.
And we'll pass that addItem function.
And then inside square,
which is a child of Canvas.
In the sense that app.svelte
contains Canvas inside that it's
got a bunch of squares.
We can use the opposite function,
getContext.
And when this component is created,
we're gonna get the current context so
that we get a reference to that function.
And we're gonna pass in the draw
function that is defined
inside Square.svelte, right?.
And if we bring this up a little bit so
you can see it,
it is in fact drawing a grid.
It's a little boring though,
we could add some randomness here.
So inside App.svelte Where
we're passing the props into the square,
we can add a little bit of
randomness with this jitter utility.
Right, the further down we get,
the higher the value of R, R stands for
row in this context, so that as
with the original artwork it starts
out very regular and then starts to
get more raggedy as we get down.
We'll do the same thing with the Y value.
And then finally we'll add some rotate.
All right, and I think that's pretty
close to the original artwork,
we're using a seated pseudorandom
number generator here.
So we can change that seed and
get a different set of
random numbers until we
find one that we like.
Now, just like onMount and
beforeUpdate and afterUpdate,
you have to call setContext and getContext
while your component is initializing,
that's how we link the context
to the component tree.
Sometimes you need to have data
that is changing in some parent and
you need to build a response to that
changing data in your child component.
And when you need to do that, you can pass
a store in as your context as shown here.